Protect residual Debug Module state across authorization handoffs (#181)
riscv-non-isa/riscv-external-debug-security: dmextsec.adoc

When `psecdbgen` is 1, the security constraints in this specification apply.

[[authhandoff]]
=== Authorization Handoff

> An *authorization handoff* occurs when the platform replaces one debug authorization context with another. Examples include ending one authenticated debug session and later starting another, or changing <<psecdbgen, `psecdbgen`>> or the external debug security controls to transfer debug authority between domains. A change in the <<dbgaccpriv, debug access privilege>> of a hart is not by itself an authorization handoff.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An *authorization handoff* occurs when the platform ends debug for one principal or domain, or admits a different one. That includes one S-mode domain finishing debug before another starts.
A hart entering or leaving a debug-allowed privilege mode is not a handoff, as long as the same principal or domain still holds debug authority. Changing `psecdbgen` or a hart's *debug access privilege* is not a handoff by itself.
After a handoff, the newly admitted debugger must not observe or use Debug Module state obtained under authorization it does not have. An operation issued before the handoff must not complete afterwards in a way that makes such state observable or usable.
The platform must complete sanitization before the succeeding debugger is admitted. The mechanism is implementation-specific.
```

After a handoff, the succeeding context must not be able to observe or use Debug Module state that was obtained or produced using authorization unavailable to it. An operation issued before the handoff must not complete afterwards in a way that makes such state observable or usable.

[NOTE]
====

> For example, `data` or `progbuf` may retain state from the preceding context. `sbdata` may retain state obtained while `psecdbgen` was 0 and System Bus Access could bypass the bus initiator protections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following state needs an explicit hardware or software clear/invalidate path across a handoff:
* Must sanitize: `data*`; `progbuf*` if it is DMI-readable; `sbdata*`.
* Should also review: `sbaddress*` (last SBA address); `command` (e.g. `regno`); `abstractauto`; and the SBA auto bits in `sbcs` (`sbreadondata`, `sbreadonaddr`, `sbautoincrement`). Leftover control can re-issue an earlier access or reveal what was touched.
```
